In this video we want to configure
IntelliJ IDEA so that we can actually start
some Python coding. So what we need to do
is two things; firstly we need to
download and install a plugin for Python,
and secondly, we need to associate the
Python install that we've done
previously in the course, to IntelliJ
IDEA so that they actually work together.
So let's start with the plug-in. We're going to configure.
We're going to select plugins,
and up here under search I'm going to search for Python.
You can see here that we've got this
huge version here, Python Community
Edition - that's the one we want. I'm
going to select on install. We know we
got the right one because it's 1.1
million installs. Click on Install, let that download.
We want to restart the IDE, so
restart IntelliJ IDEA so that that
plug-in takes effect, and we'll need that
and basically, that just sets up
IntelliJ IDEA so we can use Python. It
looks like IntelliJ is not going to
restart so I'm just going to start it
again manually. Not sure why it didn't
restart , but in any event we're gonna go now to Configure, and we want to
select Structure for new projects, so
click on that.
Now once we get to this screen you might find that you've come into the screen for the first time down there,
so click on Project if that's the
case, and depending if you're in my Java
master class or not, you may already have
an existing option here. So you may see
something that says no SDK, or you may
see something that says Java version 11,
or whatever version it is. So if you see
something there already and it doesn't
say no SDK, you can just click on New. In actual fact, in either way, you can do that.
Clearly you can see in the drop down there's no Python option there,
so I'm going to click on New. I'm
going to select Python SDK, noting that
that's an option because we've installed
the plug-in. Click on that, and what
should happen is that automatically,
it'll find the Python installation for
us, and actually in this case, the base
interpreter was found for us and we
didn't need to do anything else for that
to take effect. That brings up this
rather intimidating new screen, but look,
don't worry too much about it because it
is fairly straightforward and we're not
going to talk a lot about this virtual
env environment, you know virtual env
environment, suffice to say we need this
to actually be working. So what we're
going to do is look at those a lot later
in the course. Alright, so once we've
reached this section, this is the virtual
env environment page, and without going
into too much detail at the moment now
about it, basically it's a way of keeping
your Python environment separate, so that
things you install for one project don't
affect other projects which you may be
working on. We're going to look at those
later in the course from the command
line so I won't be discussing the
options in detail, and that's because
this is a Python course, after all, and
not an intelliJ one. But once we have
explained more about virtual env later in
the course, these options will make more
sense. For now though, you want to make
sure you've got virtual env environment
selected which we have,
in the left hand side of the page.
I'm going to leave the new environment
selected, as you can see there. I'm going
to tick both boxes; the Inherit global
site packages box, check box, as well as
the Make available to all projects check
box, as well. So the location should be in
your home directory and it is for me, and
obviously, this will look slightly
different depending on whether you're on
a Windows machine, a Mac or a Linux machine.
Now if you're only planning to use
one version of Python, you can leave this
unchanged - you don't need to change the
location. Otherwise just add Python 3.7.3
which was the version we installed, or whatever version
of python you installed, to the end of
that. I'm going to do that just so you
can see how to use different versions of
Python if you ever wanted to do,
so I'm going to put, in my case, a backslash because I'm
doing this on Windows. You put a forward
slash if you're on a Mac, and I'll put python, and what I'll do is I'll just put 3.7,
I might put dot 3 on the
end. Just 3.7 is fine.
So you can see my location, the C colon
backslash users backslash render
backslash venv backslash Python 3.7.
And you saw that under base interpreter,
IntelliJ automatically found the
installation of Python 3, or Python 3.7
in our case, 3.7.3, that we installed previously in
the course, so it found that for us
automatically. If by chance it didn't,
you'll need to navigate to the folder
where it was installed, and select it.
In our case again, as I said, it's found it
for us so we don't need to do anything.
You would need to change that, if
under base interpreter there was nothing showing.
Alright I'm gonna click on OK there.
You can see it's creating a virtual environment.
Python is now selected under project SDK, and we're
actually good to go. So I'm gonna click
on OK to that and there's a few other
little things we'll need to do now. Click
on OK. We need to come down here to
configure, and select settings, and on a
Mac that'll be preferences. So I check that,
or select that. We want to start by going
over here to Editor, and then General.
I'm gonna start with auto import. I want to make
sure there's a check to the left, to the
left hand side of Add unambiguous
imports on the fly, as well as a checkbox
on Optimize imports on the fly. Then we
want to come down to Appearance.
Make sure that Show line numbers is selected. And finally, come down to Code Folding.
You want to make sure to deselect Imports,
deselect One-line methods,
deselect Closures and Generic
constructor and Method parameters.
So what we're trying to do here is just
make sure that all the code is showing
on the screen and we're not getting any
code folding, which is a way to
hide code for more experienced developers. If
you're dealing with code that is very
mundane, it can be a good idea to hide
some of that so you can focus on what
you're working on, but, when we're
starting out learning a new programming
language it's a good idea to show all
the code, and that's what we're doing there.
We're configuring it so that is
the case. So I'm going to click on OK,
and at this point we're actually done. The
configuration of IntelliJ IDEA is now complete,
and we can move on and start
programming in the next video.